well howdy there internet people its Bo
again I did that video on ms-13 in the
situation and I'll Salvador explained
why people were fleeing and of course
they would comment saying but that's
just one country you're trying to cast
that as if that's everything I apologize
that was an oversight on my part I
should have seen that coming
so challenge accepted most of the
migrants are coming from the Sunni
triangle about the same the northern
triangle my bad and that is made up of
El Salvador Honduras and Guatemala I'm
gonna do a quick recap of El Salvador
the 1980s there were a series of juntos
us supported triggered 12 years civil
war u.s. trained troops during this
period engaged in massacres war crimes
all kinds of stuff horrible horrible
things at the end of the the war there
was a peace treaty the peace treaty
stipulated that because the police
engaged in a lot of this they had to be
disbanded the military was not very
strong it has been it has been reduced
we chose this exact moment to send a
gang back to El Salvador and buy back I
mean there this gang is ms-13 ms-13 was
not founded in El Salvador it was
founded in the United States we
transplanted it there once they were
there they had no police opposition so
of course they got a pretty good
footprint real quick got a good hold on
the country even more so once they ran
into a guy named Ernesto darris who we
trained
he took his training and turned ms-13
from the penny-ante Street gang that it
was into the transnational threat that
it is today his nickname was Satan all
that's discussed in detail in the other
video so let's move on let's talk about
Honduras and we're gonna go all the way
back to show exactly how long we've been
doing this in 1914 u.s. banana company
is owned a million acres by 1920 they
owned all the good soil peasants had no
choice but to work for them because they
couldn't get good soil of their own
during this period there were some
gripes from the government so we engaged
in a couple of direct political or
military interventions down there by the
1960s the military was all that mattered
it was the only real political
institution in the country by the 80s
under Reagan
it was USS Honduras it was a staging
area that's it we controlled that
country in every way from the economy to
the government to the military and we
militarized the entire country to deal
with the Sandinistas in Nicaragua yet
another country we screwed up
this militarization of course led to
tyranny there were political
assassinations mass disappearances
illegal detention so on and so forth and
this goes on until 2006 when they
finally get a reformer they finally get
an eye a guy in there who's gonna fix it
they're gonna fix their country he lasts
three years until the us-supported coup
ousted him since then the heavy-handed
repression is back two-thirds of the
people live in poverty they have to deal
with gangs like in that's 13 from
neighboring El Salvador which as we just
discussed is our creation as well as
barrio 18 which basically just modeled
themselves after ms-13 using the same
training and tactics and everything else
gender-based violence is the second
leading cause of death for women of
reproductive age in that country
abortion is illegal so when sexual
violence does occur as it often does the
women have no choice but to carry that
pregnancy to term however there's a no
role healthcare so they're likely to die
this is why you see a bunch of pregnant
women making this trip
to that that's Honduras in a nutshell
now let's go to Guatemala I'm going to
speed through it a little bit faster
because it's not like it's the exact
same story in 1900 the United Fruit
Company runs the country I think for
real the government is just a rubber
stamp for them they control the ports
they control everything by 1920 because
of this the Guatemalan people decide to
fix their country they overthrow the
government that is so compliant what is
the u.s. do they send troops and they
basically tell me you're gonna be just
like the last guys and if not we're
going to depose you by 1931 a real thug
has taken over there's a series of
Authority their authority reinf uggs
along the way but in 1931 a really bad
guy came in and he authorized the
landowners who were supplying the banana
plantations to punish their employees
any way they saw fit
this included rape and execution planted
free on the brave now because of this
brutality in 1944 there was an overthrow
of this guy and there was a little panel
that ran it for a few years but in 1950
they finally got free elections they
fixed their country they did it woohoo
right and everybody's excited because
democracy came No
four years later in 1954 the CIA
overthrew the democratically elected
government in operation pbsuccess they
ousted him this triggered 40 years of
civil war
forty years along the way the mine
genocide occurred us-trained troops
engaged in all kinds of atrocities now
this all officially ended in 1996 but it
really didn't end it just kind of
tapered off started tapering off at that
today they're in the exact same
situation Honduras s they're plagued by
gangs they their massive poverty no
healthcare constant corruption police
brutality government repression all of
these things that we did we did all of
this and this although we're just
focusing on the northern triangle this
is an example of pretty much all of
Central America and most of South
America this is what happened under the
Monroe Doctrine we don't need to put
better locks on our houses on our house
of the United States because other
people are breaking in we just need to
stop setting other people's houses on
fire that's what we need to do it isn't
that they can't fix their country they
did it multiple times it got overthrown
because you can't fix your country
we can't constantly allow our government
to do this and then cry when people try
to get away from the situations that we
created so yes it is our fault
yes it is our responsibility no no it
isn't just a Salvador this is everywhere
down there anyway it's just a thought we
all have a y'all have a good day